
### [Index](../README.md) -> Q3 2023, Miscellaneous

## 29th of July, 2023
Been busy with my jobs.

Half-Life software-style water has been shaderised: https://www.shadertoy.com/view/ctXyW8  
Bacontsu is trying to get it into a HL mod, which is neat.

My hair is pretty long. I love it.

## 31st of July, 2023
It’s the end of the month and damn is it a good one. Yesterday, on the 30th, I made software water in HL OpenGL, again. This time, it’s way better and more proper. It’s a proof of concept still, and it needs to render water surfaces from the BSP. It’s currently rendering one big water plane, plus we need to work out texture scaling and parametrisation.

## 10th of August, 2023
Cousins left yesterday. It feels pretty weird without them, and there is an extra weird / half-depressing feeling when it’s the end of summer and school is about to start. I then realised, oh, I don’t quite have to suffer from that any more. It’s a little different for me now.

I completed most of HL SDK Programming 4.1. It is going rather splendidly.

Thinking about porting some of my Excel sheets into Google Sheets. It’d let me view them on the phone easily.

Today I did 20 squats and 6 pushups while waiting for my code to compile at work. Feels nice to do them in little amounts more frequently, honestly.

Quake 2 Remaster came out today, that is quite interesting. Nightdive’s *Kex engine* is at it again!

## 11th of August, 2023
God damn, last night was cranky. I stayed up until 3 AM to get something at work done, but it’s still a bit broken.

HL SDK Programming 4.1 is almost done. Just gotta make the outro, then I may write the subtitles and publish the video, more or less.

Work is going pretty fine today.

## 18th of August, 2023
It has been 2 days or so since I started fermenting my pizza dough. It's gonna remain in the freezer for another day, so I can make pizza tomorrow.

It would appear my brother is gonna move out into another room, either Grandma’s or his own. This is excellent news for me. Also, our AC broke down, but that means we’re getting a new inverter one. These news together mean I’ll finally have some privacy and this winter shouldn’t be too terribly cold. Finally, the life I intended to partially live.

It will be a miracle if I get done with TWHL tutorials this month. I began writing a Substance Automation bridge library for C#. I hope it’ll be useful to people. I also moved T.E.M.P. from an offline spreadsheet over to Google Sheets, that’s pretty nice.

## 25th of August, 2023
Mm things are going a bit slow at work. I tried out the Obsidian Conflict beta today, and that was very dam fun.

There are now plans to let me live in the attic. We’re gonna renovate it this winter and spring, and I’ll have moved in there by summer. :)

## 11th of September, 2023

I tried out Krita today. I like it!

I'm probably getting VR this month, so that's going to be very epic. I've wanted to do VR gamedev for a loooooong time now. Who knows, maybe Elegy will get VR support at some point too?

## 12th of September, 2023

Made a new schedule to address my current work-life balance situation. Now it's just a matter of enforcing it. It includes an hour of exercise every 2-3 days, even! Yay for physical activity.

I've been on the lookout for some more acoustic foam and stuff. It looks like I don't really want the 5cm pyramids, I want 7cm ones! Ideally I'd also order from some decent European brand, but the couple companies I've found so far don't really ship to Bosnia.

Other than that I think I decided on a good microphone: Rode NT1-A. It may potentially work well in my room as-is, which has no acoustic treatment other than the bits of furniture inside.

Also damn, Unity really made headlines today. Ricitiello's business strategies never fail to impress!

## 16th of September, 2023

Went ahead and ordered a new AC unit. The old one in my room is starting to really show its age, occasionally leaking, making weird noises and just not working at all, despite maintenance. Having an AC is an absolute must if you live in the Balkans.

This new thing, it's an inverter AC. Apparently they're considerably more efficient, and quieter. Considering I wanna record audio while not boiling alive or freezing, yeah, this sounds pretty good!

## 26th of September, 2023

Got a Pico 4 VR headset. Probably the best 450€ I've ever spent on anything. The feeling of interacting with things in VR, and just looking at them through those lenses, was kinda unreal. Perspective and motion tracking seem to go a long way!

## 27th of September, 2023

SteamVR has been set up, and it is splendid!

