
## 7th of October, 2023

Woo! We are in October now. The crunchy and stressful period is mostly over now, as I finished the deadline on job 2.

Also egh, I am getting tired of my chair. I bought it like 3-4 months ago, and it was extremely good at the time, but it has kind of lost a part of its volume and I am tired of not being able to adjust the back rest angle. Another thing I didn't account for is the fact it gets super warm after a couple hours.

Well, good thing is, I have a standard now. I found a far far better chair for like 310€ and I'm really thinking about it, but TBH it might be better for me to wait for Christmas or something like that. We'll see.

Oh yeah, also, I recently bought this [microfox.dev](microfox.dev) domain! If you are viewing from `admer456.github.io/slice-of-life`, which is highly unlikely, you should check out the new one now. Nothing is different, I just have my own sorta thing now.

I would really like to explore web development a bit now, I have some silly ASP.NET app ideas. Next step is to find some cheap hosting that can do what I want.

## 4th of November, 2023

Umm. It appears the crunch never ends. :)

Anyway, the chair I found was at JYSK. I found some alternative places which offer seemingly good ergonomic chairs, so it'd be time to explore those instead.

Something entirely unexpected happened, that being the [complete explosion](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8XPOLflTI98) of my latest video. If I knew it was gonna get 40k views in under 10 days, I woulda done it completely differently. Bigger audience = bigger standards.

I find myself heavily missing some level design and 3D art in general. But I just know that has to wait, otherwise I'll have yet another 2-month project on my hands. I think that's bound to change though, as I plan to make worlds in VRChat.
