
### [Index](../README.md) -> Q2 2024, Miscellaneous

## 15th of April, 2024

Wew. I'm happy to say I've already reached a few goals I set for myself in January:
* mental health good
* started a HL mapping series
* got a real good microphone & audio interface
	* and a guitar
* started making videos in 1080p

Elegy is en route to becoming more and more usable, so that's cool.

For a little while, I'll hardly be making any money, don't have much to work on at my job since we finished a project recently. Not really good for my attic renovation project, but that's okay, I'm in no hurry there. I do have some other things to do, so I'll try to make a couple bucks by May.

### YouTube stuff

The series "GoldSRC Mapping" has finally started. The first video "Wanna make maps?" got some 16k views, so I'm 100% certain it's a good direction to go in. I also really like some of the new editing details I started putting in, so I think I'll keep doing them.

I'd love to pick up the moss mod or software water mod around May or so. I really gotta finish those eventually. We now have workarounds for the 25th anniversary update, so like, yeah.

## 3rd of May, 2024

Mental health dipped for a week; I'm fine now. Got assigned a new project at work, so at least that's kept me busy.

I'm thinking about working on the next video in the mapping series, so we'll see how that goes. I haven't used my mic in a while...

### PCVR and its hurdles
I finally fixed the issue I had with VRChat under Virtual Desktop. TL;DR VRChat uses a custom file for controller bindings, which it downloads from a `vr-input-workshop` URL. This is spelled out in `steamapps.vrmanifest` and is overwritten every time you start a VR game - at least I think. But SteamVR certainly overwrites it.

Using winDbg, I spied on vrserver.exe and found out it crashes when it tries to load from that URL. The fix was to remove the bindings entry from `steamapps.vrmanifest` entirely, so it falls back to loading them from a file provided by SteamVR. Fabulous!

I can now say goodbye to Pico Connect, which has been vastly inferior to Virtual Desktop as a wireless PCVR streaming solution.

### The attic and its furniture
So I bought some furniture recently. A desk and a corner shelf. I finally have some free space on my main desk, as I've moved much of the stuff to the other desk. Stuff that used to be on a clothes drying rack next to me, is now on the shelves, including my steering wheel. The wheel itself nicely occupies one whole panel on the shelf.

The nice thing is, I now have some workspace. If I wanna maintain my guitar, or work with electronics and such, I can do so on the new desk. No more need to go out of the room and use the uncomfy chairs in the kitchen, or the ultra-low coffee table in the living room. Those days are gone now.
