
### [Index](../README.md) -> Q1 2024, Miscellaneous

## 8th of January, 2024

Sretna nova! (or srećna as our eastern neighbours would say it)

2023 was full of ups and downs and ups and downs, and I'm finally feeling a little more stable now. A short overview of what happened throughout the year:

* January: started the Elegy Engine project, wrote some raymarching shaders
* February: worked on a secret lil' GUI tool project
* March: cemented the Elegy Engine project, played with Veldrid, ported Unreal-style water to Godot
* April: got a job, started working on my college game project (in Unity ;w;)
* May: got used to the job, started working on a commercial Source game on the side - Amygdala
* June: got the Logi G29 steering wheel and a 165 Hz monitor, stuff I've never seen before, let alone touched
* July: HL software-style water shader, presented my college game project
* August: designed a little sketch of the attic project in TrenchBroom, baked my first pizza dough, came up with the double-grid idea for Elegy
* September: made a couple minor contributions to Dreamshot Fantasia, bought a VR headset
* October: got into VRChat, researched Valve's ssbumps and how I could incorporate the concept into self-shadowing day-night lightmaps
* November: witnessed the Half-Life 25th anniversary update, got Elegy to a point where it can load my idTech 3 maps, played some Gloomwood
* December: 3-day boat trip to Croatia, played DiRT Rally 2.0 quite a bit, hanged out in VRChat, played The Long Drive...

Some of this stuff I didn't mention in the previous blog entries, for obvious reasons! But now you know, I was involved.

And of course, throughout all these months, I've been occasionally working on my HL SDK tutorial videos, helping out people on TWHL, and generally just surviving and trynna stay healthy enough.

For 2024 I do have a few major goals:
* ensure my mental health is in tip-top shape - November-December were a little rough
* get Elegy into a pretty usable state
* renovate the attic so I can have a lil' studio up there
* start a Half-Life mapping tutorial series on YT

And then some smaller goals:
* try dropping a few more kg
* start making videos in 1080p instead of 720p
* find a new chair
* get a real good microphone & audio interface

Overall 2023 had a good start, good middle, got horrible in the 2nd half, but then had the most spectacular ending I could ever ask for.  
See y'all hopefully in a couple weeks.

## 24th of January, 2024

So, I recently went to an ergonomic chair company in Mostar and, wow, I've been missing out. I've only now realised how inadequate my "CEO chair" from JYSK is. I've tried out a couple Sarajevo-made chairs but also some Herman Miller chairs. The latter is a tad too expensive for me but WOW is my back is gonna thank me when I get one of these.

I also got a Scarlett 2i2 4th gen audio interface, and a Rode NT1 Signature Series mic. They are awesome. Reverb is reduced by 90% and with just a little bit of EQ and extra de-essing, it's great.

I plan to get an Ibanez AZES40 in a couple months... hopefully it'll still be in stock by then. I was quite indecisive between the AZES31 and 40, but TBH I really want that whammy bar.

Other than that, I've been trying out something called HyperTimer for productivity. It seems to be designed for folks with ADHD and such. Now, I don't know if I have it, I *probably* do, but either way this has helped me stay focused quite a bit.
